Writing thread-safe code is about managing access to state, and in particular to shared and mutable state.

Informally, an object’s state is its data, stored in state variables such as instance or static fields. An object’s state may include fields from other, dependent objects; a HashMap’s state is partially stored in the HashMap object itself, but also in many Map.Entry objects. An object’s state encompasses any data that can affect its externally visible behavior(外部可见行为).

 thread safety can be defined as: a class is thread-safe when it _continues_ to behave correctly when accessed from multiple threads.

### Stateless object
stateless object has no fields and refer- ences no fields from other classes. The transient state for a particular computation exists solely in local variables that are stored on the thread’s stack and are acces- sible only to the executing thread
 Stateless objects are always thread-safe.

``` java 

public class StatelessSerlvet implements Servlet {
public void service(ServletRequest req, ServletResponse resp) {
    BigInteger i = extractFromRequest(req);
    BigInteger[] factors = factor(i);
    encodeIntoResponse(resp, factors);
    }
 }
```

### Race conditions(竞态条件)

A race condition occurs when the correctness of a computation depends on the relative timing(取决于交替执行的时序); in other words, when getting the right answer relies on lucky timing.

The most common type of race condition is check-then-act, read-modify-write(读取-修改-写入).

LazyInitRace has race conditions that can undermine its correctness. Say that threads A and B execute getInstance at the same time. A sees that instance is null, and instantiates a new ExpensiveObject. B also checks if instance is null. Whether instance is null at this point depends unpredictably on timing, including the vagaries of scheduling and how long A takes to instantiate the Ex- pensiveObject and set the instance field. If instance is null when B examines it, the two callers to getInstance may receive two different results, even though getInstance is always supposed to return the same instance.


``` java
// race conditions in lazy initialization
public class LazyInitRace {
    private ExpensiveObject instance = null;
    public ExpensiveObject getInstance() { 
        if (instance == null){
            instance = new ExpensiveObject();
        }
    }
}
// race conditions in ++ operation
public void setValue() {
        this.value++; 
} 
```

### Atomic

To ensure thread safety, check-then-act operations (like lazy initializa- tion) and read-modify-write operations (like increment) must always be atomic. We refer collectively to check-then-act and read-modify-write sequences as compound actions: sequences of operations that must be executed atomically in order to remain thread-safe.

### Locking to get rid of race conditions

#### Intrinsic locks

Java provides a built-in locking mechanism for enforcing atomicity: the synchro- nized block. (There is also another critical aspect to locking and other synchro- nization mechanisms—visibility—which is covered in Chapter 3.) A synchroniz- ed block has two parts: a reference to an object that will serve as the lock, and a block of code to be guarded by that lock. A synchronized method is a shorthand for a synchronized block that spans an entire method body, and whose lock is the object on which the method is being invoked. (Static synchronized methods use the Class object for the lock.)

The lock is auto- matically acquired by the executing thread before entering a synchronized block and automatically released when control exits the synchronized block, whether by the normal control path or by throwing an exception out of the block. The only way to acquire an intrinsic lock is to enter a synchronized block or method guarded by that lock.
Intrinsic locks in Java act as mutexes (or mutual exclusion locks), which means that at most one thread may own the lock. When thread A attempts to acquire a lock held by thread B, A must wait, or block, until B releases it. If B never releases the lock, A waits forever.

### Reentrancy

When a thread requests a lock that is already held by another thread, the re- questing thread blocks. But because intrinsic locks are reentrant, if a thread tries to acquire a lock that it already holds, the request succeeds. Reentrancy means that locks are acquired on a per-thread rather than per-invocation basis.7 Reen- trancy is implemented by associating with each lock an acquisition count and an owning thread. When the count is zero, the lock is considered unheld.

