### What is visibility

Visibility here is to make sure the changes made by one thread can be seen by other thread.

We have seen how synchronized blocks and methods can ensure that oper- ations execute atomically, but it is a common misconception that synchronized is only about atomicity or demarcating “critical sections”. Synchronization also has another significant, and subtle, aspect: memory visibility. We want not only to prevent one thread from modifying the state of an object when another is using it, but also to ensure that when a thread modifies the state of an object, other threads can actually see the changes that were made. 


### Stale data

Insufficiently synchronized pro- grams can cause surprising results: stale data. When the reader thread examines ready, it may see an out-of-date value. Unless synchronization is used every time a variable is accessed, it is possible to see a stale value for that variable. 

### Volatile variables

A weaker form of synchronization, volatile variables, to ensure that updates to a variable are propagated predictably to other threads. 

When a field is declared volatile, the compiler and runtime are put on notice that this variable is shared and that operations on it should not be reordered with other memory operations. Volatile variables are not cached in registers or in caches where they are hidden from other processors, so a read of a volatile variable always returns the most recent write by any thread.

accessing a volatile variable performs no locking and so cannot cause the executing thread to block, making volatile variables a lighter-weight synchronization mechanism than synchronized.

Locking can guarantee both visibility and atomicity; volatile variables can only guarantee visibility.

The most common use for volatile variables is as a completion or status flag, we can use volatile variables only when all the following criteria are met:
- Writes to the variable do not depend on its current value, or you can ensure that only a single thread ever updates the value;
- The variable does not participate in invariants with other state variables; and
- Locking is not required for any other reason while the variable is being accessed.
